.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 FlightAware LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd September 24, 2014
.Dt PIAWARE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm faup1090
.Nd translate "beast" binary ADS-B format to FlightAware format
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm faup1090
.Bk -words
.Op Fl -net-fatsv-port Ar port
.Op Fl -net-bo-ipaddr Ar address
.Op Fl -net-bo-port Ar port
.Op Fl -lat Ar stationLatitude
.Op Fl -lon Ar stationLongitude
.Op Fl -quiet
.Op Fl -help
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program is used by piaware to translate between "beast" binary format,
typically produced by dump1090, and the coalesced, filtered format that
piaware uses to backhaul ADS-B data efficiently to FlightAware.

.Nm
attempts to connect to dump1090 or a similar program capable of producing
beast format.  By default it connects to the local host, TCP port 30005
and begins to listen for ADS-B messages.

.Nm
listens for connections on the FlightAware "TSV" output port, which
by default is TCP port 10001, and it will coalesce and filter the messages
it receives from dump1090 (or equivalent) and send them to every program
that is connected to the port.

to set the FlightAware user name and password that PiAware will use
to login to FlightAware in order to upload ADS-B data there.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -net-fatsv-port Ar port
Specifies the FlightAware TSV output port (default: 10001).
.It Fl -net-bo-ipaddr Ar address
Specifies the IPv4 address that
.Nm
will connect to for Beast output.
.It Fl -net-bo-port Ar port
Specifies the Beast output port 
.Nm
will connect to
(default 30005).
.It Fl -lat Ar stationLatitude
Specifies the latitude of the ADS-B receiver.
.It Fl -lat Ar stationLongitude
Specifies the longitude of the ADS-B receiver.
.It Fl -quiet
Operate quietly, like don't write any normal stuff to stdout or whatever.
.It Fl -help
Produce a help message and exit.

Piaware currently uses and expects faup1090 on the default addresses and ports.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr piaware 1 ,
.Xr piaware-config 1 ,
.Xr piaware-status 1 ,
.Xr faup1090 1
