.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 FlightAware LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd September 24, 2014
.Dt PIAWARE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm piaware-config
.Nd configure piaware account information and whatnot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm piaware-config
.Bk -words
.Op Fl user Ar FlightAware_UserName
.Op Fl password
.Op Fl start
.Op Fl stop
.Op Fl restart
.Op Fl status
.Op Fl help
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is used to configure and control PiAware.  The main use is
to set the FlightAware user name and password that PiAware will use
to login to FlightAware in order to upload ADS-B data there.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl user Ar FlightAware_UserName
Specifies the user name or email address of the FlightAware account piaware will login as
.It Fl password
.Nm
will request the password interactively.
.It Fl start
Attempts to start piaware.  (This is a synonym for /etc/init.d/piaware start)
.It Fl stop
Attempts to stop piaware.
.It Fl restart
Attempts to restart piaware.
.It Fl status
Emit a brief report on the status of piaware.
.It Fl help
Emit a brief summary of piaware usage options.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Define that piaware will login as user \fIkunkee\fR and specify the password interactively:
.Pp
.Dl $ piaware-config -user kunkee -password
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr piaware 1 ,
.Xr piaware-status 1 ,
.Xr faup1090 1
