.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 FlightAware LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd September 24, 2014
.Dt PIAWARE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm piaware
.Nd forward ADS-B messages to FlightAware
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm piaware
.Bk -words
.Op Fl p Ar pid_file
.Op Fl debug
.Op Fl help
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
forwards ADS-B messages to FlightAware over an encrypted, compressed
Internet connection.

.Nm
established an encrypted, compressed TLS connection with FligthAware and logs 
in using a FlightAware user name and password.
At the same time it tries to
connect to a program on the local computer providing ADS-B messages in 
"beast" binary format, typically \fBdump1090\fR.

It then filters and coalesces those messages and forwards them over the
TLS connection where they contribute to the accuracy of FlightAware's
flight tracking.

(People who forward ADS-B messages to FlightAware automatically qualify for
a free upgrade to an Enterprise Account.  For more information please visit
http://flightaware.com/adsb/piaware/)

On startup piaware attempts to connect to port 10001 to obtain the filtered,
coalesced ADS-B messages.  If the machine is running the FlightAware-modified
version of dump1090 (https://github.com/flightaware/dump1090_mr) then it
will obtain those messages directly.

If the site is not running FA-modified dump1090 or is running a different
ADS-B provider program such as modesmixer then piaware will start a helper
program called faup1090 to translate between beast format and FlightAware
format.

If installed from the Debian package, piaware will automatically start up at system boot time.

Since other programs such as dump1090 may not have started yet, piaware will wait until something is there to provide ADS-B data.  Also piaware will automatically reconnect if that program stops and is started again and it will also periodically try to reconnect to FlightAware in the event that contact is lost.

.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl p Ar pid_file
Specifies the path of a file to store the process ID of the program so it can ensure that a second copy isn't accidentally started and whatnot.  This is used by the /etc/init.d/piaware script and would not normally be used from the command line.
.It Fl debug
If this option is selected
.Nm
will log to stdout rather than to /tmp/piaware.out.
.It Fl help
Emit a brief summary of piaware usage options.
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLES
Run piaware from the command line with debug enabled:
.Pp
.Dl $ piaware -debug
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr piaware-config 1 ,
.Xr piaware-status 1 ,
.Xr faup1090
