.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 FlightAware LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd September 24, 2014
.Dt PIAWARE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm piaware-status
.Nd Check the current status of piaware
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm piaware-status
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
tries to figure out the current status of piaware on the local system.

It checks and reports on the running status of dump1090, faup1090 and piaware.

It looks to see what program is accepting connections on port 30005, the
one piaware looks for "beast" binary ADS-B messages from, and what
if anything is listening for connections on port 10001, which will
normally be faup1090 but may be dump1090 or something else.

It looks to see and reports on whether or not piaware is connected to
FlightAware.

Finally
.Nm
connects itself to ports 10001 and 30005 and listens for a few seconds
and reports whether the ADS-B program (and possibly the translator)
is producing data.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr piaware 1 ,
.Xr piaware-status 1 ,
.Xr faup1090 1
